# Version 3.3.0

_Alternatively, TODO: come up with tagline_

## Breaking Changes

* Base-252 string compression has been fixed to not remove leading `a`s. This is breaking because
any previous base-252 comprerssion will now be invalid.
* `ṫ` (`tail-extract`) pushes `a[:-1], a[-1]` instead of `a[-1], a[:-1]`.
* `ᴴ` (`apply to head`) now vectorises dyads over the head of and the rest of an iterable.
* Lambdas operating on the stack (with `!` in the parameter list) will now assign
to any arguments that aren't `!`s


## New Elements

* `#?` returns a list of all inputs
* `ÞṆ` returns a list of all Ṇatural numbers >= 1
* `ÞṬ` returns a list of all inṬegers
* `ÞP` returns a list of all the Prime numbers
* `Þι` multiplies each item of a list by its 0-based index
* `Þκ` multiplies each item of a list by its 1-based index
* `#¿` returns the number of inputs given to a program. 
* `#¤` returns the number of arguments in  a context.
* `Þ÷` splits a list into n chunks of equal size.

## New Overloads

* `÷` will now split a string into `n: number` chunks of equal size.

## Changed Overloads

None yet

## Bug Fixes

* Special lambdas no longer try and read parameters in literate mode
* Lambda to newline now handles modifiers inside the lambda properly.

## Other Changes (QoL, Interpreter, Ecosystem, etc)

* The `R` flag has been added to make numbers cast to range in iterable
contexts
* More keywords have been added to the literate mode for structure syntax.
* Lambda to newline now has the keyword `<-}`
* There's now a redefine-element structure to allow for custom elements and modifiers.

## Closing Remarks

* TODO: add closing remarks