contributing/README.md, before:

# Vyxal docs

This folder contains documentation for anyone wanting to contribute to Vyxal.

You probably want to read the MD files on how the interpreter works in approximately this order:

1. [High level overview of lexing/tokenizing](./Lexer.md)
2. [High level overview of parsing](./Parser.md)
3. [High level overview of `Interpreter`](./Interpreter.md)
4. [Element implementation](./ElementDocumentation.md)
5. [Modifier implementation](./ModifierImpl.md)
6. [Writing tests](./Tests.md)

If any part of the documentation is lacking (either the Markdown files here or
doc comments in the source code), please let us know (through an issue or in
chat) so we can improve it.

We use the Mill build tool. See [Building.md](Building.md) for more information.

If you don't know Scala but do know another language, here are some helpful guides:

- [Scala for Python devs](https://docs.scala-lang.org/scala3/book/scala-for-python-devs.html)
- [Scala for Java devs](https://docs.scala-lang.org/scala3/book/scala-for-java-devs.html)
- [Scala for JavaScript devs](https://docs.scala-lang.org/scala3/book/scala-for-javascript-devs.html)

Commit message:

Move getting started instructions to contributing/

contributing/README.md, after:

# Vyxal docs

This folder contains documentation for anyone wanting to contribute to Vyxal.

To get started with the tools Vyxal needs (which aren't a lot), see the guide on
[Getting Started](./GettingStarted.md). Once you're done getting set up, you
probably want to read the Markdown files on how the interpreter works in
approximately this order:

1. [High level overview of lexing/tokenizing](./Lexer.md)
2. [High level overview of parsing](./Parser.md)
3. [High level overview of `Interpreter`](./Interpreter.md)
4. [Element implementation](./ElementDocumentation.md)
5. [Modifier implementation](./ModifierImpl.md)
6. [Writing tests](./Tests.md)

If any part of the documentation is lacking (either the Markdown files here or
doc comments in the source code), please let us know (through an issue or in
chat) so we can improve it.

We use the Mill build tool. See [Building.md](Building.md) for more information.

If you don't know Scala but do know another language, here are some helpful guides:

- [Scala for Python devs](https://docs.scala-lang.org/scala3/book/scala-for-python-devs.html)
- [Scala for Java devs](https://docs.scala-lang.org/scala3/book/scala-for-java-devs.html)
- [Scala for JavaScript devs](https://docs.scala-lang.org/scala3/book/scala-for-javascript-devs.html)
